Doc 11827 mobile vector search (#848)
couchbaselabs/docs-couchbase-lite: modules/android/pages/vector-search.adoc

= Vector Search
:page-aliases: 
ifdef::show_edition[:page-edition: {release}]
ifdef::prerelease[:page-status: {prerelease}]
:page-role:

> :description: Use Vector Search for AI applications.

Reviewer: Same note about actually using the {description} in your document.

Author: Done!

:keywords: edge AI api swift ios macos apple vector search generative

== About Vector Search

You can use Vector Search to efficiently find similar items or content based on the similarity of their vector representations. 
This is particularly useful for large datasets and real-time response applications.

> Vector Search is a Similarity Search method that looks for approximated nearest vectors in localised vector space. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Vector Search is a Similarity Search method that looks for approximated nearest vectors in localized vector space. 
```

Author: Done!

These vectors are represented by arrays of numbers known as an embedding, which are generated by Large Language Models (LLMs) to represent objects such as text, images, and audio. 

== Applications of Vector Search

You can use Vector Search to efficently perform common operations on remote and document Vector Embeddings such as:

* Anomaly Detection - Identifying outliers with little relatedness

* Classification - Classifying text strings by their most similar text label

* Clustering - Grouping text strings by similarity

* Diversity Measurement - Analyzing similarity distributions

* Recommendations - Recommending items with related text strings

* Search - Ranking results by similarity to given input strings

== About Vector Indexes

Vector Indexes are objects used to efficiently perform similarity search on collections of vectors.
Before use, a Vector Index needs to be trained to compute the centroids and parameters for encoding the vectors. 

> Training is configured to commence automatically on the first Vector Search query when there are enough vectors to be trained based on the `minimum-training-size` configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Training starts automatically on the first Vector Search query when there are enough vectors to be trained based on the `minimum-training-size` configuration.
```

> === Vector Index Configuration

Reviewer: Do you have more information to provide context on this table?

Honestly I wouldn't be including content like this in a conceptual topic. This seems out of place.

.Vector Index Configuration Options
[cols ="4*"]
|===
|Configuration Name |Is Required |Default Configuration |Further Information

|Expression
|Required
|No default
| A SQL++ expression indicating where to get the vectors. 
A document property for embedded vectors

> `prediction()` to call a registered Predictive model.

Reviewer: This still seems like rough notes?

|Number of Dimensions
|Required
|No default

> |2-2048

Reviewer: Please provide more context. These numbers aren't useful.

|Number of Centroids
|Required
|No default

> |1-64000. The general guideline is an approximate square root of the number of documents

Reviewer: Maybe you should explain what centroids are?

|Distance Metric
|Optional
|Euclidean Distance

> |You can also configure Cosine Distance as your Distance Metric

Reviewer: Any information to provide on what a Distance Metric is?

|Encoding
|Optional
| Scalar Quantizer(SQ) or SQ-8 bits

> a|There are three possible configurations:

Reviewer: More information on what a quantizer/encoding does would be helpful

* None
No compression, No data loss
* Scalar Quantizer (SQ) or SQ-8 bits (Default)
Reduces the number of bits per dimension 
* Product Quantizer (PQ)
Reduces the number of dimensions and bits per dimension

|Training Size
|Optional

> a|There are defaults for both the minimum and maximum training size

Reviewer: Okay but what does the training size parameter actually do?
